---
title: 'Building Great Products that Drive Excitement'
date: '2021-02-18'
tag: Product Management
---

What do you consider to be a great product?

Thinking about it from a high level, it usually seems to come down to usefulness in my opinion. I think it's very possible to build cool products, but not great ones. Those are usually the nice-to-haves. Like, it would be nice to have this thing, but it's not necessarily a must have. When building great products that deliver maximum impact, customers tend to get the most value from things they are eagerly excited to use. These products usually fall into the category of "things your friends casually tell you about without you asking". This is the sign of a great product though. It generates excitement in a way that the customer views it as something else, something other than an item they spent their money on or an application they decided to try out. They see it as a necessity - as something they wouldn't be able to experience their daily life without. 

When thinking about examples of great products, there's a number of companies that immediately pop into my head. The main one I think of is, of course, the multi-national conglomerate commonly known as Apple. I think Apple has mastered a number of things, such as developing complex software, managing global supply chains, etc etc. But when it comes to Apple's products, the thing that stands out to me is their ability to build products that get people excited. Looking back at Apple's history, even the original Apple I garnered a cult-like following from early computer enthusiasts, which continued as Apple grew into the company we know today. At the core of this phenomenon is newness, simplicity, usability, luxury, and a connectedness to the psychology of the customer. They have a pulse on what's going to get you most excited about this product. And I believe their product design seeks to answer this question throughout the entire build process.

When I reflect on applying this insight into my own product thinking, I challenge myself to think critically about the product from the perspective of the customer. This, in my opinion, is the only way to truly empathize with the individuals you're building product for. Of course this can be difficult to do, but by taking my own interests out of the equation, I'm able to embrace the qualities and characteristics of my target customer. From there, I can view the product I'm building from an unbiased perspective - or at least as unbiased as can be. Then, I can answer straightforward questions about features, design, functionality, purpose, and more.

The final note I'll add to this thought post is about applying this approach to building great software products. Software is unique in the fact that it's not a tangible product that customers can grab and feel. So the ownership aspect disappears. In other words, when I buy an iPhone or a Macbook, I have it. I tangibly own it, I can pick it up, etc. But with software delivered over the internet, there's no real ownership connection formed with that type of product. This is where creative thinking and customer psychology comes into play once again. For me, the question of what actions does this software facilitate that gets customers most excited comes to mind. By asking this question, you can design and build great software products that generate the same type of excitement and value in customers that tangible products deliver. Right now, I'm applying this approach to the way I'm building Authentic Marketplace, and thinking critically from the perspective of the customer while doing so.

Thanks for reading! ✌🏽